/* ------------------------------------------------------------------------- */
/* NAME: Sarah Larkin                                   Username: selarkin   */
/* DUE DATE: 03 APRIL 2020                                                   */
/* PROGRAM ASSIGNMENT 4                                                      */
/* FILE NAME: README                                                         */
/* PROGRAM PURPOSE:                                                          */
/*   README accompanying program 4                                           */
/* ------------------------------------------------------------------------- */
Question 1:  I ensure no students can enter while the landlord is in the room
by having the landlord lock a mutex upon entry to the room and unlock it upon
exit from the room.  The students then wait on this mutex as part of their
entry protocol.  

Question 2: I ensure the landlord does not leave until all the students have
left the room by having the landlord wait on a signal from the students.  More
specifically, when the first student enters the room, it waits on a countdown
mutex that determines whether the last student has left.  Then, when the last
student leaves the room (the student checks whether the number remaining after
it is zero), it signals the countdown to let the landlord know that the room is
empty.  This is somewhat similar to the roller-coaster problem from class, but
uses an if-statement in the student rather than a loop in the landlord.

Question 3: I ensure the message is printed last by waiting for a signal from
each student before printing the message and exiting.  Specifically, when the
landlord is retiring, the landlord waits for all the students to leave and then
signals the information that he's retired.  He then loops k times where k is the
total number of students in the program, waiting for a signal from each student
to indicate that it is terminating.  The students send these signals from part
of their entry protocol that checks whether the landlord has retired before
trying to enter.  When a student sees that the landlord is retiring, the
student prints out the message that they are terminating and then signals the
landlord.  Once the landlord has received all the signals, he prints out his
message and then exits.
